[Add Term Entry] CSS Grids: `grid-template-areas` (#689)
Codecademy/docs: content/css/concepts/grids/terms/grid-template-areas/grid-template-areas.md

---
Title: 'grid-template-areas'
Description: 'Defines a grid template by referencing the names of the grid areas.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Grid'
  - 'Layout'
  - 'Responsive'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The `grid-template-areas` property defines a CSS grid by assigning a [`grid-area`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-area) name to each element in the template. The `grid-template` property can be used as a shorthand to define the areas as well as defining the sizes of the columns and rows.
This property is collectively used with [`grid-template-columns`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-columns) and [`grid-template-rows`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-rows) under the [`grid-template`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template) shorthand property.

## Syntax

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;

> }

Reviewer: Can we add a new line between each of these here?

Reviewer: Can we also do this to all successive code blocks? 🙏🏻

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-areas:
    'nav     nav    nav'
    'main   main   main'
    'footer footer footer';
}
```

> Each grid item can be assigned a name with the `grid-area` property. Then, the `grid-template-areas` utilizes these areas in the grid container. For this properties to work, `display: grid` must be set in the `.grid-container`.

Reviewer: In the last sentence here, can we change "For this properties" -> "For these properties" OR "For this property"

> ![Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area1.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![CSS grid-template-areas Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area1.png)
```

Can we rename this image stored in `media/`?

~`grid-template-area1.png`~ --> `grid-template-area.png`

## Example 1

By using `grid-template-areas`, it is not required to specify anything on the individual grid items except for assigning the name of the corresponding area. Everything else happens on the grid container.

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
  background-color: lightpink;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
.item-four {
  grid-area: sidebar;
  background-color: lightsalmon;
}

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  grid-template-rows: repeat(4, 1fr 3fr 1fr 1fr);
  grid-template-areas:
    'nav    nav      nav'
    'main  main    sidebar'
    'main  main    sidebar'
    'footer footer footer';
}
```

> ![Example1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area2.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![CSS grid-template-areas Example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area2.png)
```

Reviewer 2: Can we rename this image stored in `media/`?

~`grid-template-area2.png`~ --> `grid-template-area-example-1.png`

In the example above, each of the areas spans multiple grid cells and this can be achieved by repeating the name of that grid area multiple times with white space between them. Multiple white spaces can be used without causing any error. This might come in handy to place the names above each other to make it more readable. Each section in quotes represents a row and each word represents a column. At this point in time, the area created must be rectangular, because there is no way to create another shaped area.

## Example 2

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
  background-color: lightpink;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
.item-four {
  grid-area: sidebar;
  background-color: lightsalmon;
}

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  grid-template-rows: repeat(4, 1fr 3fr 1fr 1fr);
  grid-template-areas:
    'nav     nav     nav'
    'main   main   sidebar'
    'main   main   ...'
    'footer footer footer';
}
```

> ![Example2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area3.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![CSS grid-template-areas Example 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area3.png)
```

Reviewer 2: Can we rename this image stored in `media/`?

~`grid-template-area3.png`~ --> `grid-template-area-example-2.png`

> Grid cells can also be left empty with a period `.` instead of white space or names. As long as there is no white space between them, one or more periods can be used for the empty cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grid cells can also be left empty with a period `.` instead of white spaces or names. As long as there is no white space between them, one or more period(s) can be used for the empty cell.
```

---
Title: 'grid-template-areas'
Description: 'A property that defines a grid template by referencing the names of the grid areas.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Grid'
  - 'Layout'
  - 'Responsive'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

> Defines a grid template by referencing the names of the `grid-area` property, establishing cells in the grid and assigning them names.
> The `grid-template` property can be used as a shorthand to define the areas as well as defining the sizes of the columns and rows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `grid-template-areas` property defines a CSS grid by assigning a [`grid-area`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-area) name to each element in the template. The `grid-template` property can be used as a shorthand to define the areas as well as defining the sizes of the columns and rows.
```

I had a question about the last line:

> The `grid-template` property can be used as a shorthand to define the areas as well as defining the sizes of the columns and rows.

Doesn't this information pertain more to an entry about `grid-template` as opposed to one about `grid-template-areas`. (we actually seem to already have [an existing entry](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template) for `grid-template`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could write something about how `grid-template-areas` is [collectively used with other properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template#constituent_properties) ([`grid-template-columns`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-columns) & [`grid-template-rows`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-rows)) under the `grid-template` shorthand property?

Author: > Maybe we could write something about how `grid-template-areas` is [collectively used with other properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/grid-template#constituent_properties) ([`grid-template-columns`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-columns) & [`grid-template-rows`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-rows)) under the `grid-template` shorthand property?

Should I write it on a new example, maybe below the syntax screenshot? So that I can provide another visual explanation of that relationship and how it works.

Reviewer 2: We would just write a sentence here such as the following:

```
This property is collectively used with [`grid-template-columns`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-columns) and [`grid-template-rows`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template-rows) under the [`grid-template`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/grids/grid-template) shorthand property.
```

Author: Ok thanks! I was about to over explore it. 🫢

## Syntax

> To use `grid-template-areas` it's required to assign names, using `grid-area` property on each grid item. The grid-template-areas are defined in the grid container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each grid item can be assigned a name with the `grid-area` property. Then, the `grid-template-areas` utilizes these areas `.grid container`.
```

For the "Syntax" section, could we move this text below the code snippet? (also, we should mention that the `.grid-container` must have its `display` property set to `grid`.

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;
}

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-areas:

>     'nav nav nav'
>     'main main main'
>     'footer footer footer';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    'nav     nav     nav'
    'main   main   main'
    'footer footer footer';
```

}
```

![Example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area1.png)

## Example 1

By using `grid-template-areas`, it is not required to specify anything on the individual grid items except for assigning the name of the corresponding area. Everything else happens on the grid container.

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
  background-color: lightpink;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
.item-four {
  grid-area: sidebar;
  background-color: lightsalmon;
}

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  grid-template-rows: repeat(4, 1fr 3fr 1fr 1fr);
  grid-template-areas:

>     ' nav     nav   nav'
>     ' main   main  sidebar'
>     ' main   main  sidebar'
>     'footer footer footer';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    'nav    nav      nav'
    'main  main    sidebar'
    'main  main    sidebar'
    'footer footer footer';
```

}
```

![Example1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/grid-template-area2.png)

In the example above, each of the areas spans multiple grid cells and this can be achieved by repeating the name of that grid area multiple times with white space between them. Multiple white spaces can be used without causing any error. This might come in handy to place the names above each other to make it more readable. Each section in quotes represents a row and each word represents a column. At this point in time, the area created must be rectangular, because there is no way to create another shaped area.

## Example 2

```css
.item-one {
  grid-area: nav;
  background-color: lightpink;
}
.item-two {
  grid-area: main;
  background-color: lightblue;
}
.item-three {
  grid-area: footer;
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
.item-four {
  grid-area: sidebar;
  background-color: lightsalmon;
}

.grid-container {
  display: grid;
  max-width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  grid-template-rows: repeat(4, 1fr 3fr 1fr 1fr);
  grid-template-areas:

>     ' nav     nav   nav'
>     ' main   main   sidebar'
>     ' main   main   ... '

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    'nav     nav     nav'
    'main   main   sidebar'
    'main   main   ...';
```
